DAG, stands for Directed Acyclic Graph.
This means that the graph has a direction and is not circular.
Like many graphs, DAG also has vertices and edges.
The vertices of DAG are RDDs and the edges are
operations like transformation functions applied on the RDDs.
Stages are a terminology used in Spark to annotate grouped tasks.
These will all be available as visuals on Spark UI,
and you can set the port number on your application
using the config parameter on Spark.ui.ports.
How do DAGs work in Spark?
DAG is an optimized execution plan with minimized data shuffling.
When any action is called on an RDD,
Spark creates a DAG and submits it to the DAG Scheduler.
The DAG Scheduler devise operators into stages of tasks.
That DAG Scheduler knows how to pipeline operators together,
and many map operators may be scheduled into a single stage depending on your code.
The stages are passed onto the Task Scheduler.
The Task Scheduler launches tasks through a cluster manager.
This is your yarn or amazes.
Although tasks scheduler launches the task,
it doesn't always know about the dependencies of the stages.
Finally, the primary node assigns the tasks to secondary nodes.
The lineage graph explains a history of RDD transformations.
It's a graph of all the parent RDDs of the current RDD.
DAG will show all the different stages, transformations and actions.